Thank you very much for being here.
Thanks to you.
It is a pleasure.
In The Power MBA and within marketing
we have drawn a process, which
does not have to be the definitive
process, but that helps a
little to visualize it.
And we started by a segmentation,
by a targeting, we started
by analyzing how our customer
is with a series of tools,
such as the customer person,
such as the map of empathy, and
subsequently, once we know
our customer well, we reach
the positioning or branding
phase.
And then comes the most tactical
part that is the marketing mix.
We always say that creating
a powerful brand is absolutely
vital in any business.
But you, as a branding expert,
would love to help Power
MBA students understand.
I will ask you a few simple
questions.
What is Branding?
What is not?
What is it useful for?
Can you help us visualize what the
impact of managing it well is?
And put examples of companies you
have helped and what benefits
they have obtained by really taking
care of this.
Where do we start?
Why is it branding?
See, branding, whether you search it
on Wikipedia or look for some
description, will more or less
explain what the discipline is responsible
for creating and managing brands.
I immediately say, and what is a brand?
A brand, depending on who you
ask, will tell you one definition
or another.
In principle again, if you search, they
will tell you, hear, because it is the
set of elements, of distinctive
signs that allow you to identify
and differentiate a project,
whatever it is, from another.
In fact, branding began in the United
States, where they had different
animals, cows, etc., they had
to differentiate them
from each other, then they began
to point them out with a distinctive
sign to differentiate them
that they were of one and
another.
This is where branding comes.
But if you want that, it's, in some
way, the narrow vision or the
vision, so to speak, small of
branding.
You have used a word
that is signs.
Of course, if people think branding
is signs, it's actually a short-
sighted view, because branding
is much more than that.
exactly to.
Let's see what the brand is.
Well, because a brand is more than
a name, a typography, a color,
a logo, it's more.
And therefore, branding is
also more, as you create and manage.
For me, and I say for me, a brand
is a promise.
Behind that promise is an idea.
So what is the idea?
Why are you here?
Who are you?
What is your DNA?
What is your competitive difference?
What is your personality?
What are your values?
What is it that matters to you?
That is all the brand.
And once you have it all clear,
you can manage, you can create,
you can make branding.
So for me, from my point of
view, branding is at the top
of, if you want, the spit
of the pyramid of managing
business projects.
As with this conception, understanding
the brand as that promise,
the brand is in the very
genesis of the idea.
I mean, I want to do something.
I am an entrepreneur, I want
to do something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And that what do you want to do?
Do you have a chance to do so?
Does the market allow you to do so?
Have you done a competition
analysis to see if there is a gap?
Have you done a customer analysis?
Have you asked customers to see
what they think about that proposal
that, in principle, has to
be different and relevant?
What are your values?
You do not sell products.
The customer does not mark.
Buying promises.
What is your promise?
Now you've built a more or less aspirational
brand, but in the end what
you have is a promise.
And so why will they choose you, why
will they choose you instead of
another option?
This is what we need to work on.
And sometimes it is for
pure rational reasons, but usually
it is for pure emotional reasons or
a mixture of rational emotions.
I think that depends on, that depends
a bit on the type of sector in which
you are competing, because if
we go to very commoditized sectors
in which the elasticity of
demand is very high and is competing
in price, well, because there
are the rational factors
maybe weighing more, but there
is another type of more
differentiated sectors in which
the rational factors weigh much
less.
And how you have been able, if you
have been able to create a powerful
brand, because it will make
absolutely the difference between
buying you or giving you your huge
experience in this, you could give
us examples of cases in which
you have participated or not,
or companies we all know
of the benefits, of the impact.
I would like all students to understand
the impact of creating a powerful
brand.
The most practical impact of creating
a powerful brand is that you can
sell it for a higher price, being
very, if you want, very direct
and cold in this sense.
That, forgive me that you cut, I have
friends in the wine sector and that
is what you said, the cellars that sell
more expensive wines, is just what
they did, that is, it is not that
they have made better wines, etc.,
not part of there, they have been
able to create a brand that allows
them to sell wines instead
of 15 euros to 35 euros.
Exactly, and that is true
for aspirational brands in sectors
where comfort is always living
with the product.
I've recently worked for a sector, on
fixing systems, what tacos
are, and when you analyze the sector
it turns out that the leading brand
is the most expensive brand, and a
tacos that will be inside the wall,
that nobody will see, and why you
choose the more expensive tacos
and not a tacos that is much cheaper.
Why is the market leader the most
expensive brand?
Because the brand has worked well,
it has worked well with
certain rational, emotional
axes, because it is permanently
innovating, because it transfers
a security image by a series
of elements that makes you, in
the end, decide to buy that stick
that will be hidden for everyone
and that will be inside
the wall.
The truth is a perfect example
to illustrate something that I may
have not explained well before,
that is that even in the most
comfortable sectors, working
well the brand has a huge
impact.
There are obviously sectors where it
is very very very complicated, but
in the end what is your promise?
Why are you here?
Why am I going to choose you?
Sometimes it's like moving the
personal issue.
At the end of the day, if you do the
exercise of personification of a project,
be it a brand, be it a city, be it
a book, be it a television program,
be it a company, be it an NGO,
at the end of the day, all
are brands.
So the one who establishes that
empathy with those values, with that
personality, with that way of being,
of doing, beyond the product,
why is it that copying the products
how long will it take to copy
an absolutely equal or even
improved product?
I always say, as you're going to
copy well, not copyright, well
because that's somehow what the
brand allows you, that is, you can
sell for a higher price a product,
a service that in logical terms
could be equipped to one more economical,
but your promise goes beyond,
you pick up a whisky and pick
up another whisky and do the
taste test and one is premium
and again less premium.
The experience for even someone
who knows is probably slightly better
and can identify the most
premium whisky, but when you put
the brand you are moving a imaginary
world, an aspirational world
and the experience is remarkably
better, really is remarkably better,
because it goes beyond the taste
and therefore that brand that
is premium, that is exclusive,
that is moving you at a particular
moment, is allowing you to
have a fantastic evidence,
at the end of that contact
with the brand you are having
a unique experience, this
is what we when we create
brands.
I would say beyond too, well and are
things that you have commented and
is that the creation of a strong
brand, the product is copying, well
there are times that you can
have some competitive advantage,
but well that is more copying and
the brand is a lot and the brand
is not copying, then the brand in
some cases what you generate
is a huge barrier entry or a competitive
advantage of such size that it
is a barrier entry for others
and if we think of the most famous
brands in the world, that yes,
they are brands that are worth
tens of billions and that are a
real barrier entry and in addition
when you are able to create
a very powerful brand, you are
giving a sustainability to your
business is that a little
independent of the products
you are going to sell and also
under the umbrella of that
brand, in many cases it allows
you to make a product
development that is
almost always